<div align="center">

# ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE

DE MÉTROLOGIE LÉGALE

</div>

BUREAU INTERNATIONAL DE MÉTROLOGIE LÉGALE

11. RUE TURGOT — 75009 PARIS — FRANCE

TÉL. 878-12-82 ET 285-27-11

INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE

OF LEGAL METROLOGY

SEVENTEENTH MEETING G

Washington - 16-19 and 20 June 1980

REPORT

## SUMMARY

Personalities present 5

Opening address 7

Welcoming address 8

Roll-call of delegates - Quorum 9

Approval of the Agenda 9

Minutes of discussions 10

1 - Approval of minutes of the 16th meeting of the Committee 10

2 - Financial situation 10

    2.1. Approval of the Accountants' Reports for 1978 and 1979

    2.2. Examination of the draft "Financial Code"

3 - Examination of certain questions prior to the meeting of the Conference 10

    3.1. Scale of salaries for BIML staff

4 - Examination of the Agenda for the Conference - Presidency of the Conference - Organization of the session 10

5 - Examination of certain items of the work of the Conference 11

    5.1. Amendment to the Convention

6 - Examination of the situation of certain Secretariats 11

    6.1. SP 25

    6.2. SP 17

    6.3. SP 20

    6.4. Explosimeters

    6.5. Reorganization of SP 18

    6.6. BIML proposal concerning the state of progress with certain activities

7 - Examination of draft International Documents 13

    7.1. New adoption procedures and new appellation

    7.2. Adoption of the draft "Installation and storage conditions for cold water meters".

8 - Bureau Personnel 15

    8.1. Examination of posts for which the contracts expire in the near future.

9 - Implementation of the decisions of the Conference 16

    9.1. Composition of Reporting Secretariats

    9.2. Development Council (financial regulation)

    9.3. Report on the work of the "OIML Mark" ad hoc group

10 - Organization of Technical Seminars 17

11 - OIML logo 18

12 - Significance of national marks of metrological control 19

13 - Report on BIML activities 19

14 - Any other business 19

15 - Date and place of the next meeting 19

16 - Presidency of the International Committee of Legal Metrology 19

Closure of the 17th meeting of the Committee 21

Resolutions and decisions of the Committee 23

<div align="center">

# SEVENTEENTH MEETING of the INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE of LEGAL METROLOGY Washington - 16-19 and 20 June 1980

</div>

The International Committee of Legal Metrology met on convocation of its President, Mr A.J. van MALE, in Washington, on the occasion of the Sixth International Conference of Legal Metrology.

It held two main sessions, on Monday 16 June in the morning and on Friday 20 June, end of the morning and afternoon, and an extra exceptional session on Thursday 19 June at the end of the morning.

<table border="1"><tr><td>Were present:</td><td>Messrs</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>AUSTRALIA</td><td>:T.J.PETRY</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>AUSTRIA</td><td>:F.ROTTER</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>BELGIUM</td><td>:M.L.HENRION(Mrs)</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>BULGARIA</td><td>:P.ZLATAREV
V.VARBANOV</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>CZECHOSLOVAKIA</td><td>:J.SKAKALA</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>DENMARK</td><td>:E.REPSTORFFHOLTVEG</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>FINLAND</td><td>:P.KIVALO</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>FRANCE</td><td>:P.AUBERT
A.LEBOUCH</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>GERMANDEM.REP.</td><td>:H.DAMM</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>GERMANYFED.REP.</td><td>:W.MÜHE
E.SEILER</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>HUNGARY</td><td>:M.GACSI
F.PETIK</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>INDONESIA</td><td>:SOEPARTO
G.M.PUTERA</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>IRELAND</td><td>:J.E.CUNNINGHAM
C.P.O&#x27;TOOLE</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>JAPAN</td><td>:M.KAWATA
M.MIYABAYASHI
R.MASUI</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>KOREAREP.</td><td>:HONG-KI BAE
CHANG-SOO NA
HOON-KYUNG SUNG
CHUNG-HI RHEE
KI-SANG CHOI</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>NETHERLANDS</td><td>:A.J.VAN MALE
A.C.BIJLOO
J.NIEUWLAND</td><td>President of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>NORWAY</td><td>:K.BIRKELAND</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>POLAND</td><td>:T.PODGORSKI
J.SZAMOTULSKI</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>ROMANIA</td><td>:I.ISCRULESCU
P.BUZOIANU</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>SPAIN</td><td>:R.RIVAS</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>SRILANKA</td><td>:H.L.K.GOONETILLEKE</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>SWEDEN</td><td>:R.OHLON
S.SJOBERG</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>SWITZERLAND</td><td>:A.PERLSTAIN</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr><tr><td>U.S.S.R.</td><td>:L.K.ISSAEV
V.ERMAKOV</td><td>Member of the Committee</td></tr></table>

INTERNATIONAL BUREAU OF LEGAL METrology:

B. ATHANE

Z. REFEROWSKI

A. THULIN

D.B. AFEICHE

Interpreters:

W. KRIMER - P. READING-LECLERCQ - H. KAPS - J.C. PORSON - D. ZARECHNAK - G. TUNIK-ROSNIANSKY.

Delegations of votes:

H.W. LIERS (German Dem. Rep.) to H. DAMM

F.A. SOBHY (Arab Rep. of Egypt) to A.O. McCOUBREY (United States of America)

E. NDOUGOU (Cameroon) to A. ASONGWE

A. VATRICAN (Monaco) to P. AUBERT (France)

T. HILL (Czechoslovakia) to J. SKAKALA

Excused, CIML Members of the following States:

CUBA - CYPRUS - Dem, People's Rep. of Korea - Ethiopia - Guinea - Italy - LEBANON - MOROCCO - TUNISIA.

The delegation of the UNITED REPUBLIC of TANZANIA: Mr M. KABALO, Member of the Committee and Mr C. MAUNGU, which was late, arrived at the end of the session.

States which have not appointed their representative on the Committee:

ALGERIA - GREECE - INDIA - ISRAEL - PAKISTAN - YUGOSLAVIA*

<div align="center">

# OPENING ADDRESS by Mr A.J. van MALE, Netherlands President of the International Committee of Legal Metrology

</div>

Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Colleagues,

It is a great pleasure for me to welcome so many of you for the seventeenth session of our Committee, which is meeting for the first time in the history of our Institution outside Europe. I would immediately like to extend to our colleague from the U.S.A. Dr McCOUBREY, our sincerest thanks for all the work which he and his colleagues have put in, to ensure the success of this meeting, as also of the Sixth International Conference, which opens this afternoon.

As is customary during the opening session of the Conference, I shall be making a report on the activities of our Institution over the last four years. The present address will therefore be brief.

Firstly, it is with deep sadness that I have to recall the recent death of our former colleague and honorary member, Professor BOURDOUN, in whose memory I would now ask you to observe a few moments of silence.

I would now like to give you the names of our new colleagues, who were not yet participating in the work of our Committee, at the time of its last session in June 1978. They are : Mr McCOUBREY (U.S.A.), Mr PETRY (Australia), Mr EROTOCRITOU (Cyprus), Mr HONG-KI BAE (Republic of Korea), Mr HO SU GYONG (People's Republic of Korea), Mr OCEGUERA (Cuba), Mr GACSI (Hungary), Mr SOEPARTO (Indonesia), Mr KAWATA (Japan), Mr MERDASSI (Tunisia), Mr ISSAEV (USSR), Pr PEREZ GUANCHEZ (Venezuela), together with members of the CIML for two new Member States : Mr CUNNINGHAM (Ireland), and Mr KABALO (Tanzania).

To those of the aforementioned who are present among us, I would repeat verbally the welcoming good wishes, which I sent to them at the time of their nomination.

I would also mention the retirement of Mr VENKATESWARAN (India), and Mr SPIRIDONOVIC (Yugoslavia), whose respective successors have not yet been nominated.

Members of the CIML for two other new Member States (Algeria and Greece), have not yet been designated. However, in the case of Greece, liaison with our Institution is currently being provided by Mr KAPONICOLOS.

Naturally, I have sent our best wishes and sincerest thanks in your names, to all our former colleagues who have retired over the last two years.

However, I would like to mention the extremely important part played by one of them in favouring the activities of our Institution. Dear Professor ERMAKOV, you became a member of our Committee in 1966, preceding me by a few months, and you were subsequently elected to the Vice-Presidency.

During the last fourteen years, you have given our Institution all the benefit of your experience, you have made an extensive contribution to the modernization of its working methods, and the expansion of its field of activities.

You have succeeded in mobilizing behind you, all the metrological forces of your country, and you have thus made a direct contribution to the preparation of many OIML recommendations.

Professor ERMAKOV, in the name of all your colleagues on the CIML, both old and new, as also in my own name, please accept our very sincere and very profound thanks. In my capacity as President of the Committee, I call upon your colleagues to nominate you Honorary Member of our Institution.

... applause ...

I now turn to our working programme. It is extremely full, and unfortunately, we shall have very little time, in principle having only this morning and the afternoon of Friday.

There are a certain number of questions which we must deal with this morning. A further series of questions must be dealt with either this morning, or Friday afternoon, or perhaps during an additional session which we may have to organize on Wednesday or Thursday. Other questions could be covered by correspondence, if we find it impossible to examine same between now and Friday.

I hope that for all matters requiring a vote, we shall not encounter too many difficulties as to the application of the rules laid down by our Convention, and which are summarized in an information bulletin which you have all received.

To assist us in the work before us, I have requested the BIML to prepare a new agenda, including each and every point contained in the draft agenda dated March 1980, classified in the most appropriate order for our working conditions.

You have each a copy of the new agenda before you, and I therefore propose, my dear colleagues to take the points of discussion included in same, one by one.

However, before we start work, I will ask our host Dr McCOUBREY, to say a few words.

## WELCOMING ADDRESS

## by Mr A.O. McCOUBREY, USA

## Member of the International Committee of Legal Metrology

On behalf of the United States Delegation and our United States colleagues, I want to welcome all other delegates to Washington. This is a special privilege for us to be a host for the International Conference and for the meeting of the International Committee. We are also very pleased that our National Conference of Weights and Measures could be scheduled to follow directly the meeting of the Conference and the Committee, and we very much hope that as many of you as possible will be able to attend the meeting of our National Conference of Weights and Measures next week. I am sure that this meeting will give you some additional insight into the practice of Weights of Measures and Metrology in the United States. We wish all the delegates who are here a very pleasant stay in Washington, and if there is anything that we can do to make your stay more pleasant, please let us know. Thank you Mr President.

ROLL-CALL OF DELEGATES - QUORUM

Following this address, the roll-call of delegates was taken (see list above). 30 members of the CIML were present or represented, our of a total of 40 (6 States not yet having designated their CIML members). The statutory quorum of 3/4 was therefore just met.

## APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA

The meeting adopted the following Agenda, although modifying the order of the items, in order to adapt the study to the course of the Conference:

Opening address

Roll call of delegates - quorum

Approval of the Agenda

1. Approval of the minutes of the 16th meeting

2. Financial situation

   2.1. Approval of the Accountant's reports for 1978 and 1979

   2.2. Examination of the draft "Financial Code"

3. Examination of certain questions prior to the meeting of the Conference

   3.1. Scale of salaries for BIML staff

4. Examination of the Agenda for the Conference - Presidency of the Conference - Organization of the session.

5. Examination of certain items of the work of the Conference

   5.1. Amendment to the Convention

6. Examination of the situation of some Secretariats :

   6.1. SP 25 : Developing Countries

   6.2. SP 17 : Pollution measurement

   6.3. SP 20 : Prepackaged products

   6.4. Creation of a new secretariat for explosimeters

   6.5. Reorganization of SP 18 : Food products

   6.6. BIML proposal concerning the state of progress with certain activities

7. Examination of Draft International Documents

   7.1. New adoption procedures and new appellation

   7.2. Adoption of draft "Installation and storage conditions for cold water meters"

8. Bureau staff

   8.1. Examination of posts for which the contracts expire in the near future

9. Implementation of the decisions of the Conference

   9.1. Composition of the Reporting Secretariats

   9.2. Development Council (Financial Regulation)

   9.3. Report on the work of the "OIML Mark" ad hoc group

10. Organization of Technical Seminars

11. OIML logo

12. Significance of National Metrological Control Marks

13. Report on BIML activity

14. Any other business

15. Date and place of the next meeting

16. Presidency of the International Committee of Legal Metrology

## 1. APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE 16th MEETING OF THE COMMITTEE

The minutes were approved without modification.

## 2. FINANCIAL SITUATION

## 2.1. Approval of the Accountants' Reports for 1978 and 1979

These reports were adopted, prior to their presentation to the Conference.

## 2.2. Examination of the draft "Financial Code"

It was recalled that the Committee had adopted, in 1962 and in accordance with Article XXVII of the Convention, a "Financial Code" which was subsequently found to be difficult to apply in all its details.

The BIML consequently prepared a new draft "Financial Code", based on experien of financial management over the last 10 years, and which was approved in principl by the Presidential Council in September 1979.

On the proposal of the Polish delegation, a certain number of textual improvements and clarifications were applied to the draft.

On the other hand, a second proposal by the Polish delegation was not seconded by the meeting : it was requested that Article II, point I, should include the wording : "the budgets ... are established by the Director of the BIML, examined and approved beforehand by the CIML, for submission to the decision of the International Conference of Legal Metrology". The meeting observed that this proposal did not correspond explicitly to an obligation resulting from the Convent and would be liable to introduce major administrative difficulties, in particular to the obligation to consult the CIML several months ahead of the meeting of the Conference.

At the conclusion of these discussions, the draft "Financial Code" was adopted

## 3. EXAMINATION OF CERTAIN QUESTIONS PRIOR TO THE MEETING OF THE CONFERENCE

## 3.1. Scale of salaries for BIML staff

The last modification to the scale of salaries for BIML staff was made in July 1975, in order to realign the progression of salaries for BIML staff, both with those of personnel employed by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) and by the French Administration.

During the period July 1975 - July 1979, the increase in salaries for BIML personnel was approximately 8 % less than that for the BIPM and French Administrat The Committee therefore decided to increase all salary scales for BIML personnel b 8 %, dating from 1st July 1980.

## 4. EXAMINATION OF THE AGENDA FOR THE CONFERENCE - PRESIDENCY OF THE CONFERENCE ORGANIZATION OF THE SESSION

The Committee expressed its agreement on the proposed agenda and time table for the Conference.

Furthermore, the Committee decided to propose the following nominations at the Conference : Mr E.L. BRADY (U.S.A.) Madam M.L. HENRION (Belgium), and Mr H.L.K. GOONETILLEKE (Sri Lanka), as President, and Joint Vice-Presidents of the Conference, respectively.

## 5. EXAMINATION OF CERTAIN ITEMS OF THE WORK OF THE CONFERENCE

## 5.1. Amendment of the Convention

The Committee expressed its agreement for a draft resolution to be presented for examination by the Conference, whereby the Convention should not be modified for the present.

## 6. EXAMINATION OF THE SITUATION OF CERTAIN SECRETARIATS

## 6.1. SP 25 - Developing Countries

Reporting Secretariat SP 25-Sr 2 : "Structure and operation of a national service of legal metrology, for which Sri Lanka is responsible, and SP 25-Sr 3 : "Equipment required for operation of a national service of legal metrology", for which the USSR is responsible, could be placed directly under the responsibility of the Development Council. Reporting Secretariat Sr 1 : "Legislation concerning legal metrology" and Sr 4 : "Study of OIML Recommendations with respect to developing countries", for both of which the BIML is responsible, could be disbanded. Reporting Secretariat SP 25-Sr 5 : "Teaching of legal metrology" (Morocco) could be attached to the Development Council or Pilot Secretariat SP 31 "Teaching of metrology"

If technical work is to be undertaken at a later date, with respect to the developing countries, this work could be taken on by an existing Pilot Secretariat or Reporting Secretariat, or by a working group placed under the responsibility of the Development Council.

The Committee expressed its agreement in principle with the proposals of the BIML, which could be studied in greater detail at the next meeting of the Development Council.

## 6.2. SP 17 - Measurement of pollutants

Mr A.O. McCOUBREY reported on the steps which had been taken at national level in the USA, for the formation of a working group which, alongside the "Environmental Protection Agency", which will take over responsibility for this Secretariat, which embraces the following five Reporting Secretariats :

SP 17-Sr 1 - Measurement of air pollution

SP 17-Sr 2 - Measurement of water pollution

SP 17-Sr 3 - Measurement of radionuclide radiation

$$
\mathrm {S P} 1 7 - \mathrm {S r} 4 - \mathrm {M e a s u r e m e n t o f p e s i c i d e s a n d t o x i c s u b s t a n c e s}
$$

$$
\mathrm {S P} 1 7 - \mathrm {S r} 5 - \mathrm {M e a s u r e m e n t o f n o i s e p o l l u t i o n}
$$

Mr A.O. McCOUBREY considered that the International Working Group of SP 17 should meet as soon as possible, to define priorities and establish a detailed work plan.

Mr W. MUHE underlined certain risks of duplication, between the proposed activities of the Reporting Secretariats and the activities of other OIML Pilot Secretariats, in particular SP 14 "Acoustics and Vibrations". For this reason, he hoped that the responsibility for the Reporting Secretariats of SP 17 would be assigned as rapidly as possible to the candidate States, so that the allocation of tasks would be studied, and that technical recommendations would be prepared in the shortest possible time, in those fields of most immediate interest.

If this were not so, he feared that regulations would be established individually by the States, thus creating new barriers. He declared that the Federal Republic of Germany was ready to take on the responsibility for Reporting Secretariat N°1, automatically ensuring good coordination with ISO Technical Committee TC 146 : "Quality of Air", for which the Standardization Committee of his country is responsible. He also gave a brief summary of his views concerning the sharing of responsibilities between the ISO and OIML, with the possibility of creating joint ISO/OIML Working Groups in certain cases.

Mr PERLSTAIN described the state of progress with the work of SP 14-Sr 1 "Sound and noise", which is due to revise an IEC publication in the near future. He could agree for his country to work with SP 17-Sr 5 "Measurement of noise pollution", provided this activity was limited to sonometers.

Mr SOUCH indicated his intention to propose his country as a candidate to take on the responsibility for Secretariat SP 17-Sr 3 "Measurement of radionuclide radiation", particularly since the United Kingdom is already responsible for SP 1 "Ionising radiation". However, this candidature would be subject to subsequent official confirmation.

The Committee expressed its agreement in principle concerning the creation of the five proposed Reporting Secretariats. It agreed that responsibility for Sr 1 and Sr 3 should be taken over by the Federal Republic of Germany and United Kingdom (subject to confirmation), respectively. It charged the U.S.A. with organizing the first meeting of this Pilot Secretariat in 1981, to settle all problems of detail and ensure rapid commencement of the work.

## 6.3. SP 20 - Prepackaged products

Mr EDGERLY recalled that the draft work plan for this Pilot Secretariat had already been submitted to the Presidential Council. This Pilot Secretariat has two Reporting Secretariats, Sr 1 "Information Content of labels", and Sr 3 "Metrological guarantee of declared quantities contained in packages".

The Committee expressed its agreement in principle with this proposal, and thanked Mr PERLSTAIN for taking over responsibility for Reporting Secretariat N which in fact would be identical to Secretariat SP 2-Sr 5 "Sample testing", for which Switzerland is already responsible.

Replying to a question from Mr LE BOUCH, brief details were given concerning collaboration between the OIML and the Codex Alimentarius, in the field of sample testing and pesticides.

## 6.4. Creation of a new Secretariat for explosimeters.

This Reporting Secretariat, created on the proposal of France, and for which France is responsible, comes under Pilot Secretariat 30. France was requested to carry out work in this field, which could be undertaken by the ISO, IEC or other institutions. A certain number of CIML members expressed their interest in princi in collaboration with this Reporting Secretariat, subject to confirmation by their respective national administrations.

## 6.5. Reorganization of SP 18 (Food products).

The BIML indicated that this reorganization was still being discussed by Franc the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom, and that proposals would be presented to the Committee at a later date.

## 6.6. BIML proposal concerning the state of progress with certain activities

Mr THULIN presented an analysis covering the activities of certain Secretariat the work of which should be accelerated as far as possible, due to the particular importance of same. Generally, this concerns relatively new metrological subjects for which national regulations have not yet been established in many cases, altho many metrology services are beginning to work on these questions.

Under these conditions, it would be appropriate for the OIML to get in first, establishing International Recommendations as rapidly as possible, which could serve as the basis for future national regulations, from the outset.

The fields concerned are principally as follows :

- control of prepackaged products

- pollution measurement

- instruments used in medicine and for health purposes

- verification of material testing machines

- certain physico-chemical measurements

- and above all, electronic devices associated with measuring instruments.

Mr THULIN observed that in certain countries, it is not the national services of metrology, but other administrative departments which are responsible in these fields. This means that certain CIML members must establish contacts at national level, as also appropriate coordination between the different departments or laboratories handling the metrological aspects of the fields concerned.

As regards electronics, Mr PERLSTAIN mentioned the work carried out by CENELEC, EEC and other institutions, and mentioned the different attitudes with which certain states approach this field.

Mr PERLSTAIN finally recalled that one question had been examined on numerous occasions by the Committee, and it would perhaps be appropriate to review the line taken a few years ago : it is necessary or not, to create an OIML Secretariat concerned generally with all electronic devices, irrespective of the type of measuring instrument with which they are associated ?

Regarding another field mentioned, medicine and health, Mr PERLSTAIN also spoke of the difficulties encountered by the Secretariat concerned with dosimeters, for which his country is responsible, in the development of an OIML recommendation which takes account of draft documents prepared by the IEC.

Finally, with respect to the material operation of certain secretariats, Mr A.O. McCOUBREY spoke of the difficulties which are encountered, when a Secretariat is placed under the conjoint responsibility of several Member States, as is the case with SP 5 in particular.

He stated that the U.S.A. is ready to accept any solution aimed at assigning responsibility for SP 5 to a single state, in order to improve the efficiency of the management of this Secretariat.

Mr LE BOUCH said that France shared this point of view.

Mr MUHE suggested that this question could be studied at the next meeting of SP 5, to be held in October 1980.

## 7. EXAMINATION OF DRAFT INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTS

## 7.1. New adoption procedures and new appellation

The Committee expressed its agreement with proposals put forward by the BIML, aimed at simplifying and accelerating the procedure for adoption of international documents. The new procedure is as follows:

a) Documents prepared by Pilot or Reporting Secretariats, or by other competent bodies of the OIML, following approval by the BIML, are submitted to the members of the CIML for comment and voting, either by correspondence or on the occasion of a meeting.

b) The Members of the CIML have a minimum period of 3 months to study the draft Document, and express their opinion of same.

c) Publication of the Document is decided by the BIML, taking due account of observations received, provided a clear majority has voted in favour by the specified deadline, or at the time of a meeting.

At the suggestion of Mr E. REPSTORFF HOLTVEG (Denmark), it was nevertheless requested that the minimum period of 3 months should be reexamined, with a view to its possible extension.

Furthermore, at the request of Mr A.O. McCOUBREY (U.S.A.), the BIML was charged with re-examining proposals concerning a new appellation for this catego of document.

Finally, following a comment from Mr ALTSCHULER of the National Bureau of Standards, the BIML will take the necessary steps to prepare a short information note, describing the principal differences between International Recommendations and Documents, in order to guide Secretariats in their decisions concerning the destination of the drafts which they prepare.

7. 2. Adoption of the draft "Installation and storage conditions for cold water meters".

This draft was adopted with the following voting results :

<table border="1"><tr><td>!</td><td></td><td>!</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>! ALGERIA</td><td>-</td><td>! ITALY</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! AUSTRALIA</td><td>YES</td><td>! JAPAN</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! AUSTRIA</td><td>YES</td><td>! KOREA Rep.</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! BELGIUM</td><td>YES</td><td>! LEBANON</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! BULGARIA</td><td>YES</td><td>! MONACO</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! CUBA</td><td>-</td><td>! MOROCCO</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! CYPRUS</td><td>-</td><td>! NETHERLANDS</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! CZECHOSLOVAKIA</td><td>YES</td><td>! NORWAY</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! Dem. People&#x27;s Rep. of KOREA</td><td>-</td><td>! PAKISTAN</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! DENMARK</td><td>YES</td><td>! POLAND</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! EGYPT</td><td>YES</td><td>! ROMANIA</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! ETHIOPIA</td><td>-</td><td>! SPAIN</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! FINLAND</td><td>YES</td><td>! SRI LANKA</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! FRANCE</td><td>YES</td><td>! SWEDEN</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! GERMAN Dem. Rep.</td><td>YES</td><td>! SWITZERLAND</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! GERMANY Fed. Rep.</td><td>YES</td><td>! TANZANIA</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! GUINEA</td><td>-</td><td>! TUNISIA</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>! GREECE</td><td>-</td><td>! U.S.S.R.</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! HUNGARY</td><td>YES</td><td>! UNITED KINGDOM</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! INDIA</td><td>-</td><td>! UNITED REP. of CAMEROON</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! INDONESIA</td><td>YES</td><td>! UNITED STATES OF AMERICA</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! IRELAND</td><td>YES</td><td>! VENEZUELA</td><td>YES</td></tr><tr><td>! ISRAEL</td><td>-</td><td>! YUGOSLAVIA</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>!</td><td></td></tr></table>

Number of votes cast : 30 Number of votes in favour : 30 (including proxy vote

Concerning the work of the OIML on water meters, the CIML Member for the Federal Republic of Germany requested that Reporting Secretariat SP 5-Sr 16 should make a fresh effort to harmonize throughout indications for these meters with the ISO.

## 8. BUREAU PERSONNEL

8. 1. Examination of posts for which the contracts expire in the near future.

The Committee set up a Commission for the purpose of examining the following candidatures, for the posts of Assistant Director and Engineer :

1° The post of Assistant Director :

Presented by Mr P. AUBERT, CIML Member (France) Mr ESTIVAL Mr MILLET

Presented by Mr G. SOUCH, CIML Member (Great Britain) Mr DINNING Mr ROBINSON Mr SPINKS

Presented by Mr M. GACSI, CIML Member (Hungary) Mr PETIK

Presented by Mr T. PODGORSKI, CIML Member (Poland) Mr PESTRAKIEWICZ

Presented by Mr T. HILL, CIML Member (Czechoslovakia) Mr SKAKALA

Presented by Mr L.K. ISSAEV, CIML Member (USSR) Mr KOZLOV

Presented by India Mr MAHESH CHANDER

Mr CHANDRASEKHARAN

Mr MRINAL KANTI GHOSH

Mr ISHWAR DATT

Other candidate Mr AFEICHE (BIML)

2° For the post of Engineer :

Current holder of the post : Mr AFEICHE

Presented by Mr G. SOUCH, CIML Member (Great Britain) Mr DINNING

Presented by India Mr MRINAL KANTI GHOSH

The Committee then adopted the following two draft resolutions presented by the Commission, by secret vote. The first draft was adopted by 29 votes in favour and 2 blank votes, and the second by 27 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions.

The International Committee of Legal Metrology

HAVING EXAMINED the candidatures to the post of BIML Assistant Director presented by some Members of the Committee,

BEING PLEASED with the great number of candidatures so presented and with the great ability of some of them,

CONSIDERING the information given by the Director of the Bureau concerning the tasks for which the new Assistant might be responsible,

DECIDES the appoint Mr PETIK as new Assistant Director,

FEELS that it is advisable that the new Assistant assumes his new office shortly before the departure of the present titular in order to ensure a continuity in the Bureau activities.

## The International Committee of Legal Metrology

CONSIDERING the candidatures presented for the post of Engineer,

TAKING COGNIZANCE of a report of the Director of BIML concerning the orientation he would like to give to the various posts at BIML, aiming in particular at broadening the profile of the post of Engineer,

## DECIDES not to appoint an Engineer,

ENTRUSTS the Director of the Bureau to present urgently to Members of the International Committee of Legal Metrology a description of the new characteristics of the post of Engineer and to ask at the same time for candidatures,

MANDATES the President of the International Committee of Legal Metrology to proceed with the appointment of the future Engineer,

AUTHORIZES the Director of the Bureau to keep on the staff list the present titular of the post of Engineer beyond the end of his contract but not beyond 31 December 1980 in order to enable the person concerned the restore his administration of origin or to look for a new job.

## 9. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECISIONS OF THE CONFERENCE

## 9.1. Composition of Reporting Secretariats

Following the decision of the Conference concerning the creation of "collaborator-observers", the Bureau was charged with pursuing investigations in connection with the enrolment of Member States in this new category, and with publishing a new version of the document : "Composition of OIML Reporting Secretariats", early in 1981.

## 9.2. Development Council (Financial Code)

Following the adoption by the Conference, of a resolution concerning the creation, and terms of reference of the Development Council, the Committee adopts in principle the draft regulation, concerning the attribution of OIML financial aid for "participation in the meetings of the Development Council", as follows:

## The International Committee of Legal Metrology,

by virtue of resolution C.6-1980, Item 7.2, taken by the 6th Conference concerning the creation, terms of reference and principles of operation of the Development Council, with particular reference to points 2.2.3. and 2.4.2 of same,

sets down the conditions and procedures for allocation of OIML financial aid, for the participation of full Member States in the meetings of said Council as follows :

1. On the occasion of each meeting, the OIML will, within the limits of the budget provided by the Conference for this purpose, bear travel and residential costs for a certain number of delegates from Developing Countries.

2. This number will be fixed according, among other parameters, to the amount of provision made for the operating period concerned, and the number of meetings planned during said period.

3. This aid may not be allocated to more than one delegate from the same country, for the same meeting.

4. Countries invited to present candidates for aid on the occasion of a meeting, will be selected in rotation from a list kept permanently by the BIML, and established on the basis of the chronological order of applications, formulated beforehand by interested countries.

5. Countries invited to take advantage of this aid on the occasion of a meeting, and which are unable to do so, will be replaced where possible by the next country on the list. The replaced countries will nevertheless have priority for the next meeting.

6. In allocating this aid, the OIML cannot be held responsible for any possible accidents or other damage which may be incurred by invited delegates. The latter should take out such insurance cover as they see fit, for their trip.

## 9.3. Report on the work of the "OIML Mark" ad hoc group

This report was presented to the Conference

## 10. ORGANIZATION OF TECHNICAL SEMINARS

Mr THULIN summarized the general content of the report, issued following an investigation carried out early in 1980, which showed that many Member States are interested in the proposal made by the BIML, concerning attempts to organize technical seminars on a certain number of subjects, the more important of which are as follows:

- electronic devices

- verification of prepackaged products

- gauging of large tanks

- verification of weight-bridges; verification of high capacity hydrocarbon meters

- utilization of statistical methods for verification of measuring instruments

- measurement of gas and liquefied gas volumes

- national standards and calibration resources

- organization and structure of a Service of Legal Metrology; problems relating to regulations and methods of verification and supervision.

Mr THULIN, added that the Bureau was currently studying the possibility of organizing a first seminar during 1981. The most appropriate subject for the seminar was being sought, and it was hoped that a host country could be found.

The Bureau was also examining the possibilities of financial contributions, for example from UNESCO and UNIDO, to assist with the travel expenses of participants from developing countries.

Finally, Mr THULIN recapitulated what, in the opinion of the Bureau, represent the two objectives of seminars of this type:

- the first objective is to provide technical information for the personnel of legal metrology services, who have not yet had actual experience of the subject in question, for example in cases where the National Service of Metrology concerned has not yet begun to concern itself with this subject. The interest of this aspect of the seminar is to give these persons a good practical grounding, which is not always available from the works which may be found in a laboratory, or from published articles.

- the second objective concerns specialists already actively working on the subject in question. The main point is to achieve an exchange of experiences, and improve the efficiency of their work.

Mr GOONETILLEKE hoped that the seminars would not be too large, not embracing too many subjects, but on the contrary that they would be of a specialized nature, designed for personnel of legal metrology services, already experienced in their profession, and for whom the seminars would provide an opportunity to improve their knowledge and degree of specialization

As regards general training courses, designed principally to provide basic training for the future personnel of legal metrology services in developing countries, this should be left to the UNO agencies.

Mr THULIN replied that the technical seminars under discussion were indeed of interest to industrialized countries in particular, but could also concern a certain number of developing countries, assisting the latter to achieve progress with their metrology services. As concerns the problem of general training in legal metrology, this should be dealt with entirely separately in the context of SP 31 and the Development Council, and any training courses or seminars organized for this purpose would have an entirely different character

Mr RIVAS supported the general idea expressed, and considered that the UNC agencies on the one hand, and the OIML on the other, had their own particular role to play, and that the OIML should concentrate on technical seminar specializing in legal metrology, of interest both to industrialized and developing countries.

Mr MUHE expressed certain reservations, due to the fact that he had observ that numerous seminars are already organized throughout the world, dealing wi problems of metrology, and that all too frequently, nobody knows what is goir on in a neighbouring country. The organization of major conferences is publicized, but no information is received concerning the organization of seminars in Universities or Technical Colleges.

Mr MUHE also proposed that the possibility of using OIML Secretariat meetings, as an opportunity for organizing short technical information seminars should be considered. Frequently, the meetings of OIML Secretariats are held in the premises of National Institutes of Metrology, close to metrological laboratories, and the meeting of the Secretariat could be interrupted for half a day or a day, to organize a technical commission on a given subject, connected with the work theme of the Secretariat concerned.

Mr McCOUBREY proposed that the publication of articles on subjects, the priority interest of which has thus already been identified, should be encouraged in addition to efforts towards the organization of seminars. The OIML Bulletin could be used in the case of relatively short articles.

Finally, following a question from Mr MUHE on the possibilities of UNESCO or UNIDO financing, Mr PETRY explained what Australia is attempting to do in the Pacific area: as it is difficult to find finance to aid trainees from developing countries to travel to Australia, Australian experts are going to countries such as Fiji, to organize seminars at such times as during the university vacations, so that the residential and equipment facilities of the university can be used.

## 11. OIML LOGO

Mr THULIN summarized the results of an investigation conducted by the BIM concerning a representative logo for the Organization, which could be used on letter headings, the cover of published documents, etc..

Certain general directions emerge from the results of this investigation, but further work would be required on certain of the models presented, and a new proposal will be made to the Members of the Committee at a later date.

## 12. SIGNIFICANCE OF NATIONAL MARKS OF METROLOGICAL CONTROL

The investigation conducted by the BIML is being pursued, and it is anticipated that the results of same will be published early in 1981, possibly in temporary form prior to publication in more detail.

Mr RIVAS reminded the BIML of the close links existing between this subject and the OIML certification mark.

## 13. REPORT ON BIML ACTIVITIES

A report summarizing the main points of BIML activity since the last meeting of the Committee in June 1978, was distributed to the participants.

## 14. ANY OTHER BUSINESS

The Bureau presented a short report on the utilization of the English language, and the Committee expressed no objections to the plan, to be operated on an experimental basis for a period of two years, whereby the relatively modest overheads, resulting from the preparation of documents by the BIML systematically in French and English, are to be covered by the ordinary budget of the OIML, provided that special translation work, executed at the request of certain Member States concerned, will continue to be covered by the special budget of the Translation Centre.

## 15. DATE AND PLACE OF THE NEXT MEETING

Certain Members of the Committee had advised the BIML of their intention to invite the Committee to meet in their countries at a later date, and it was decided to await firm proposals, before establishing the calendar for the next meetings $ ^{*} $

## 16. PRESIDENCY OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF LEGAL METROLOGY

The meeting unanimously elected :

## Mr K. BIRKELAND (Norway) as President, and

Mr L.K. ISSAEV (USSR) and Mr A.O. McCOUBREY (USA) as first and second Vice Presidents respectively. These gentlemen thank their colleagues for the confidence placed in them and declared their readiness to assume their responsibilities for the greatest good of the OIML.

<div align="center">

# Mr K. BIRKELAND

</div>

Mr President,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Dear Colleagues,

It is with great joy and much emotion that I accept the honour which you do me, as also the heavy responsibility with which you charge me, on my election to the Presidency of the International Committee of Legal Metrology.

I am extremely touched by your confidence, and fully aware of the importance of the role which I will have to play.

Firstly, Mr van MALE, rest assured that I shall use my best endeavours to continue to guide the Committee in a manner at once both flexible and human, but also with the same tenacity as you have applied over the last 12 years.

Your example will indeed be of great value to me, as likewise the prospect for the future of which you spoke in your report. Then, we must not forget that the President is not isolated, but has two Vice-Presidents at his side. All three of us have been elected today. Thus, lacking in experience but full of good intentions, we shall assist each other in guiding the progress of our organization.

There is also the Presidential Council, which I shall be convening in due time, and whose extremely valuable opinions will be considered with the closest attention.

Finally, there is the BIML, on whose aid I know I can count. The sharing of tasks between the Director of the BIML and myself, will be conducted in full accord with the rules of our organization.

Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Colleagues, please accept my renewed thanks, and be assured that I shall devote myself wholehartedly to the prosecution of my new international functions.

On termination of the discussions, Mr van MALE called on Messrs BIRKELAND, ISSAEV and McCOUBREY to take their places at the Presidential table.

Mr van MALE again thanked the Committee for the harmonious and friendly collaboration which he had always encountered. He wished the Committee every success for the future, and expressed his confidence in the new President and Vice-Presidents of the CIML, in whose hands he placed the future of the Organization.

Mr van MALE also thanked the personnel of the BIML, from whom he had always been able to obtain assistance when he had need of same.

Mr BIRKELAND again thanked Mr van MALE, on behalf of all those who had worked on the Committee over the last 12 years.

Following a proposal from the Polish delegation, he expressed the unanimous agreement of the meeting to nominate Mr van MALE Honorary Member of the International Committee of Legal Metrology.

Finally, Mr RIVAS, speaking as the senior Member of the Committee, recalled the progress which the OIML had known under the Presidency of Mr van MALE, and called on future generations to bear in mind what had been achieved.

On conclusion of these addresses, Mr BIRKELAND declared the 17th meeting of the International Committee of Legal Metrology closed.

RESOLUTIONS AND DECISIONS

The Committee has adopted the report of its sixteenth meeting.

$$
\mathrm {D E C I S I O N S C I M L. 1 9 8 0 - P O I N T 2}
$$

The Committee has adopted the accountants reports for 1978 and 1979 as well as the draft "Financial Code".

## DECISION CIML.1980 - POINT 3

The Committee has adopted a new scale of salaries of the BIML staff.

$$
\mathrm {D E C I S I O N S C I M L . 1 9 8 0 - P O I N T 6}
$$

## a) SP 17 "MEASUREMENT OF POLLUTANTS"

The Committee has accepted the draft general working plan presented by the U.S.A. and reproduced hereafter, asking the Pilot Secretariat for meeting as quickly as possible in order to fix the detailed working programme.

<table border="1"><tr><td>SP</td><td>17</td><td>Measurement of pollutants</td><td>U.S.A.</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>1</td><td>Measurement of pollutants in air</td><td>Germany, Fed. Rep.</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>2</td><td>Measurement of pollutants in water</td><td>X</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>3</td><td>Measurement of radionuclide radiation</td><td>Great Britain(subject to confirmation)</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>4</td><td>Measurement of pesticides and toxic substances</td><td>X</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>5</td><td>Measurement of noise pollution</td><td>X</td></tr></table>

## b）SP20 PREPACKAGED PRODUCTS

The Committee has accepted the draft general working plan presented by the U.S.A. and reproduced hereafter.

<table border="1"><tr><td>SP</td><td>20</td><td>Prepackaged products</td><td>U.S.A.</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>1</td><td>Information on package labels</td><td>Germany, Fed. Rep.</td></tr><tr><td>Sr</td><td>2</td><td>Metrological assurance of package quantity of contents declarations</td><td>Switzerland(in liaison with SP 2-Sr 5)</td></tr></table>

## c) SP 30-Sr 12

The Committee has accepted the creation of Secretariat SP 30-Sr 12 "Explosimeters" on the responsibility of France.

## DECISION CIML.1980 - POINT 7.1.

The Committee has accepted a proposal from the Bureau relating to a simplification of the mode of acceptance of International Documents and has requested the Bureau to study the possibility of modifying the denomination of these Documents.

$$
\mathrm {D E C I S I O N C I M L . 1 9 8 0 - P O I N T 7. 2 .}
$$

The Committee has adopted the draft International Document "Installation and storage conditions for cold water meters".

The International Committee of Legal Metrology

HAVING EXAMINED the candidatures to the post of BIML Assistant Director presented by some Members of the Committee,

BEING PLEASED with the great number of candidatures so presented and with the great ability of some of them,

CONSIDERING the information given by the Director of the Bureau concerning the tasks for which the new Assistant might be responsible,

DECIDES to appoint Mr PETIK as new Assistant Director,

FEELS that it is advisable that the new Assistant assumes his new office shortly before the departure of the present titular in order to ensure a continuity in the Bureau activities.

The International Committee of Legal Metrology

CONSIDERING the candidatures presented for the post of Engineer,

TAKING COGNIZANCE of a report of the Director of BIML concerning the orientation he would like to give to the various posts at BIML, aiming in particular at broadening the profile of the post of Engineer,

DECIDES not to appoint an Engineer,

ENTRUSTS the Director of the Bureau to present urgently to Members of the International Committee of Legal Metrology a description of the new characteristics of the post of Engineer and to ask at the same time for candidatures,

MANDATES the President of the International Committee of Legal Metrology to proceed with the appointment of the future Engineer.

AUTHORIZES the Director of the Bureau to keep on the staff list the present titular of the post of Engineer beyond the end of his contract but not beyond 31 December 1980 in order to enable the person concerned to restore his administration of origin or to look for a new job.

## DECISION CIML 1980 - POINT 9.2.

The Committee has adopted for your guidance the Code hereafter relating to allocation of OIML financial aid for the participation in the meetings of the Development Council.

## The International Committee of Legal Metrology,

by virtue of resolution C.6-1980, Item 7.2., taken by the 6th Conference, concerning the creation, terms of reference and principles of operation of the Development Council, with particular reference to points 2.2.3. and 2.4.2. of same,

sets down the conditions and procedures for allocation of OIML financial aid, for the participation of full Member States in the meetings of said Council, as follows:

1. On the occasion of each meeting, the OIML will, within the limits of the budget provided by the Conference for this purpose, bear travel and residential costs for a certain number of delegates from Developing Countries.

2. This number will be fixed according, among other parameters, to the amount of provision made for the operating period concerned, and the number of meetings planned during said period.

3. This aid may not be allocated to more than one delegate from the same country, for the same meeting.

4. Countries invited to present candidates for aid on the occasion of a meeting, will be selected in rotation from a list kept permanently by the BIML, and established on the basis of the chronological order of applications, formulated beforehand by interested countries.

5. Countries invited to take advantage of this aid on the occasion of a meeting, and which are unable to do so, will be replaced where possible by the next country on the list. The replaced countries will nevertheless have priority for the next meeting.

6. In allocating this aid, the OIML cannot be held responsible for any possible accidents or other damage which may be incurred by invited delegates. The latter should take out such insurance cover as they see fit, for their trip.

## DECISION CIML 1980 - POINT 10

The Committee agreed that the Bureau continues its efforts in view of organizing, if possible in 1981, a first technical seminary, on one of the subjects to which all Member States have given priority.

## DECISION CIML 1980 - POINT 16

The Committee has elected, for a six years period, as President and first and second Vice-presidents :

Mr K. BIRKELAND, Norway

Mr L.K. ISSAEV, U.S.S.R.

Mr A.O. McCOUBREY, U.S.A.